content/_index.md, before:

+++
title = "Gio Scalzo"
draft = false
+++

<div style="display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: space-between; gap: 2rem; margin-bottom: 2.5rem;">
  <div style="display: flex; align-items: center; gap: 1.5rem;">
    <img src="/images/avatar.png" alt="Avatar" style="border-radius: 50%; width: 80px; height: 80px; object-fit: cover;" />
    <h1 style="margin: 0; font-size: 2.5rem;">Gio Scalzo</h1>
  </div>
  <img src="/images/robot-me.png" alt="Me as a Robot" style="width: 220px; max-width: 40vw; height: auto; display: block; border-radius: 1.5rem; object-fit: cover; background: transparent; box-shadow: none;" />
</div>

## AI and Mobile Engineering

---

### About Me
I am passionate about programming as a form of building that allows me to express my creativity and solve real-world problems. As a writer and speaker, I enjoy sharing knowledge and insights with the community. My expertise lies in mobile technologies, and I am deeply interested in artificial intelligence and the rapid evolution it is driving across industries.

---

### Projects
My recent projects on Mobile and AI. [View projects &rarr;](/projects/)

---

### Contact
**Email:** giordano.scalzo at gmail dot com

**Find me on:**  [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/giordanoscalzo/)  |  [GitHub](https://github.com/gscalzo)

Commit message:

Update config.toml to change site title to "Gio Scalzo" and enhance _index.md by adding a section for books authored, improving content organization and visibility.

content/_index.md, after:

+++
title = "Gio Scalzo"
draft = false
+++

<div style="display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: space-between; gap: 2rem; margin-bottom: 2.5rem;">
  <div style="display: flex; align-items: center; gap: 1.5rem;">
    <img src="/images/avatar.png" alt="Avatar" style="border-radius: 50%; width: 80px; height: 80px; object-fit: cover;" />
    <h1 style="margin: 0; font-size: 2.5rem;">Gio Scalzo</h1>
  </div>
  <img src="/images/robot-me.png" alt="Me as a Robot" style="width: 220px; max-width: 40vw; height: auto; display: block; border-radius: 1.5rem; object-fit: cover; background: transparent; box-shadow: none;" />
</div>

## AI and Mobile Engineering

---

### About Me
I am passionate about programming as a form of building that allows me to express my creativity and solve real-world problems. As a writer and speaker, I enjoy sharing knowledge and insights with the community. My expertise lies in mobile technologies, and I am deeply interested in artificial intelligence and the rapid evolution it is driving across industries.

---

### Books
I wrote several books  Mobile, specifically on Swift and SwiftUI. [View books &rarr;](/books/)

---

### Projects
My recent projects on Mobile and AI. [View projects &rarr;](/projects/)

---

### Contact
**Email:** giordano.scalzo at gmail dot com

**Find me on:**  [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/giordanoscalzo/)  |  [GitHub](https://github.com/gscalzo)
